# A new beginning
Starting anything new is scary. I've worked on the service desk for just shy of two years (at the time of writing/typing) and I've never used Bash, nor have I ever needed to. Learning new technology is overwhelming, and with shortcuts like ChatGPT, its easy to be lazy. But knowing how to use in-demand technology without external resources will separate you from a 'vibe scripter/programmer' (not to mention how impressive it is). Sometimes, trying new things takes courage, and I just want to push myself to learn new things. If you're reading this then you might too, and hopefully you might feel inspired to keep track of what you're learning to level up. I also wanted to write this in a relateable way because reading people's experiences on forums and other spaces can be less forgiving if you're understanding isn't that of someone with years of experience. Writing this is part of my journey. I've built a litle Proxmox server (I used an old crappy laptop) and everything I'm going to be learning on will be on there but by all means use an ISO key. As long as you can practice, that's what matters the most.

## Bash
If you search 'Bash' into a browser, you will be presented with a whole host of sites but for learning purposes I've chosen W3 schools.com explanation (https://www.w3schools.com/bash/). You will read that it's a Linux/Unix system, that it stands for Bourne Again SHell (like anyone will need that) and that it's popular due to how easy it is to use. Let's be the judges of that eh?

I also popped over to a link from FreeCodeCamp (https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/bash-scripting-tutorial-linux-shell-script-and-command-line-for-beginners/) just to read around some more on Bash. The article is by Zaira Hira and Zaira explains that "A bash script is a file containing a sequence of commands that are executed by the bash program line by line. It allows you to perform a series of actions, such as navigating to a specific directory, creating a folder, and launching a process using the command line." It's sounding a lot like an operating system software combined with a programming language. Zaira lays out what some uses of shell scripting are: Automation, Portability, Flexbility, Accessibility, Integration and Debugging. The main few that stick out are automation and debugging but that might change in the days or weeks ahead.




